building upon this observation, we introduce the concept of
neighboring pixel relationships(npr) as a means to cap-
ture and characterize the generalized structural artifacts
stemming from up-sampling operations.
this
analysis culminates in the establishment of a novel state-of-
the-art performance, showcasing a remarkable 11.6% im-
provement over existing methods.
building upon these insights, we propose a simple but
effective artifact representation, termed neighboring pixel
relationships (npr), aimed at achieving generalized deep-
fake detection.
the primary innovation of
our approach lies in introducing a simple yet versatile arti-
fact representation derived from the common up-sampling
component of generation pipelines.
our paper makes the following contributions:
• we propose a simple yet effective artifact representa-
tion, neighboring pixel relationships (npr), designed
to capture local up-sampling artifacts from image pix-
els, thereby achieving generalized forgery image detec-
tion.
• we demonstrate that up-sampling operators can cause
generalized forgery artifacts beyond frequency-based ar-
tifacts.
related work
in this section, we present a concise survey of deepfake
detection approaches, categorizing them into two main
groups: image-based and frequency-based detection.
we introduce a form of local up-sampling artifacts,
named neighboring pixel relationships (npr), the details
of which are presented in this section.
gan pipelines: we present an overview of the fundamen-
tal pipeline inherent to generative adversarial networks
(gans), as depicted in figure 3 (a).
consequently, the correlation of elements is presented
in vc
ˆx.
implementation details: we design a lightweights cnn
network using convolutional layer and resnet[16] block as
the classifiers for npr with 1.44 million parameters.
our method
is implemented using the pytorch on nvidia geforce
rtx 3090 gpu.
generalization capability evaluation
in this section, we demonstrate that the local artifacts repre-
sentation, neighboring pixel relationships, induced by the
up-sampling operations in common generation pipelines,
can be easily employed for identifying generated image
data.
the neighboring pixel relationships (npr) outperforms its
counterparts, showcasing higher mean accuracy (acc.) and
comparable mean average precision (a.p.) metrics.
the detection performance on diffusionforensics [58]
is presented in table 3.
npr outperforms the current state-of-the-art meth-
ods lgrad and ojha [44] by 7.1% and 20.9%, respectively,
in terms of mean acc.
we present a simple but effective artifact rep-
resentation, named neighboring pixel relationships (npr),
to achieve generalized deepfake detection.
